The Joe Rogan experience.
You know, that knee you landed on. Frankie was crazy.
I was by myself watching TV and I screamed out loud. <laugh> you know,
it was one of those. Oh yeah.
And that's a common thing in my house where people like, are you okay?
I'm like watching the.
Fights. Yeah. That nasty one do. It was.
So perfect. Yeah. It was you timed it. So perfect.
Yeah. I mean, he wasn't doing any of the hitting the brakes, you know,
everything he was doing was just forward, forward, forward. He threw, you know,
he threw a kick forward, he threw a combination forward and I was like, oh,
this guy's not hitting the brakes at all. You know? Uh, and I was like,
you know, just throw something into that space that he was gonna step into. And,
you know, he couldn't have been more.
Perfect. Yeah.
Yeah. It was like right before he threw a punch everything. Yeah.
So two wicked Kos in a row. Mm-hmm <affirmative> like that over two top guys,
like you must be feeling right now that you're on like a whole new level.
Yeah. I'm trying not to feel too good. <laugh>, you know, cause that demon,
you know, that demon will tell you, Hey, you're you're good enough, man.
You know, you're good enough. Ride it out. Yeah. Um, yeah,
I do feel good though, man. I, I feel like, uh, I think it's been noticeable,
the demeanor that I go into the cage with it's, it's noticeable in my,
my brain too. Like when I'm walking into the cage, uh, I'm ready, you know,
to hurt someone. Uh, and I'm ready to, uh, I'm ready to, you know,
snap and get the, get that 10 weeks of thinking about it out of me. Uh,
but yeah man, I, I I'm super happy with it, man. I feel like, you know, uh,
it's, it's,
it's own ability to figure out where you best perform and like you, you,
you don't learn that unless you have, you know, a loss or, or,
or you get lucky and you, you get a win, a fight, but you know,
I had to lose and, um, that's how you learn that stuff. And I,
I really feel man, like when I'm in the back in that space,
I feel 100% completely untouchable, you know? And, uh,
that's something that is very, very different than when I was fighting before.
Like I'm walking into the cage now feeling 100% untouchable.
And do you attribute this to the work with the mental coach as well as just you
realizing that you were flat in the Germaine fight? Yep.
Yep. And, and just realizing where I do best, you know,
just realizing where I do best. Like, uh,
I would love because I'm a calm dude. Like I'm a relaxed guy.
Like I don't get too high or too low about anything. Like, it'd be nice if that,
if I could perform at that level, you know, but that's not the case for me.
So I need to really,
and that's why I do it before barn is I'll make sure no matter how tired I am,
regardless of what's going on, you know, if I'm injured, if I'm, you know,
overtrained, whatever it is, when it's sparring day,
I'm making sure that I get myself to that same place. Um,
obviously not intense enough to where I'm gonna hurt my training partners,
but I'm making sure that I can replicate that head space regardless of the
situation.
Yeah. You said something after the fight, when you were talking to,
you were talking to Laura Sanko, is that what you were talking to? Uh.
No. It was, uh, Andrew.
Whoever it was. Yep. <laugh> that person. Um, you were,
you said some people go in there and they're looking to compete.
They like to compete and that's what they're doing. Mm-hmm <affirmative> you,
you go there, you're trying to hurt people. Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
That's that's, you know what I'm doing now? You know, uh,
it, it was really uncomfortable for me because like, we are kind of, you know,
I like Hinduism, I like Eastern philosophy. I like the idea of like, you know,
Buddhism and, you know, being really peaceful and having a Zen mind and, uh,
and not wanting anything and, and,
and being really free from all the suffering of the world and,
and trying to get there. Uh, and that was kind of my philosophy, you know,
up until I was choked out by Sterling and opened up my eyes and I hear him
running around and celebrating, and I was like, that, you know,
that everyone that I go into a fight now with, I'm really trying to hurt,
you know,
like I want to be the guy that's running around the cage and they're opening up
their eyes, you know? And, and I didn't, you know, uh, it's, it's a,
it's a different type of space to be in. And it takes a lot of prac practice,
especially for someone like me who is isn't, you know, naturally like that. Uh,
but you know, that's,
that's the game that we're in and that's what I'm trying to do now.
How important is a law sometimes super.
Important? It's, it's a reminder, you know, uh, and like you said, you know,
I was just too comfortable. I was too laid back.
Like I needed to remember how dangerous sport is. Uh,
and that's one of the main things that I took from that loss is that like,
we're not playing soccer. Like don't walk into that fight, not ready to go.
It's also a lesson, right? It's like,
failure is so good for you because when you fail,
it sucks and it feels terrible. But if you needed motivation,
well, there it is like, that's the best form of motivation. Like,
people would love to get motivation in a, a totally positive, uh,
like a way where it's elective, like I've decided to be motivated. Yeah.
I'm going to be positive and that's wonderful. But my goodness,
the injection you get from a loss or from just straight up failure where you're
like, oh my God, I'm a loser. Yeah. You're like, oh,
the feeling it's so bad. Yeah.
You're literally the same person you were before that moment.
But now you hate yourself. You hate everything. You're you feel terrible.
You can't sleep. You get up to take a and you can't stop about you're like,
<laugh> you just feel so bad. You nailed it.
But that feeling is worth a billion dollars. It's so valuable.
I wish,
I wish I could win fights and feel like I lost every single time. Ooh.
I wish I had that. Like that type of superpower. I wish I could do that.
Do you think you could talk yourself into that feeling?
Is it like the feeling that you got after the algae fight?
Can you think you can like bring yourself back to that state? Yeah.
Yeah. Um, yeah. If I sit and think about it long enough,
which I sometimes, you know, like, and not, not because of that fight,
but just all of the things, like you said, that happened after a loss man,
like all the conversations you have to have with people. Oh my God.
Like the looks you get, what do you think went wrong? Yeah. Hey man. Uh,
you'll get it next time. It's like, no, man, like this is my existence, bro.
You'll get it next time. Yeah. Yeah.
Non-com competitors that wanna talk to you about your losses? No, I hate it.
Look on the bright side. Yeah. You got your health. Yeah. In that moment,
there's no bright side. And that's something that every athlete I think,
has to come to grips with the during losses.
There's there's no upside. It's just, this is your look.
Sometimes you're the hammer.
Sometimes you're the nail and you don't get the good without the bad.
The reason why the good is so amazing is cuz you felt the bad. Yep.
If you're just this guy just stormed your way to the top with no adversity
whatsoever, you probably wouldn't enjoy it as much. No. And.
And that, uh, that emotional pain I think is worse than physical pain. And uh,
I remember after the first time I lost, I had like my own crisis,
a little bit where I had to, you know,
venture off and really question like who I was as a person where I,
where I was putting a lot of my identity, just because that hurts so bad, man.
And uh, I remember like if I keep doing this,
it might happen again. You know? And I had to,
I had to like sit with that a little bit. And I was like,
and you might not even get what you want out of this. And then I was like.
And then I had to sit with that. And then I was like, and then I,
but I'm really grateful for that because that was the real moment in my life
where I was like, martial arts is, is my path. You know,
like that's what I'm doing, that's what I'm doing. Uh,
I remember having the very Lou said, thought of like,
when I was having those feelings of like, uh, this could happen again.
You might not ever get into the UFC. You could be doing this and win some,
lose some and be a loser until you're 35 40, you know?
And in my head I was like, okay, you know, I'll sleep in a box, I'll be a loser.
You know, as long as I get to do this with my life, like, I'll be that loser.
And, and kind of since then, that's when I was like, oh, I actually love this.
You know.
<Laugh> catch new episodes.
The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog Jr E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video and
audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to two Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.